---
layout: post
title: AI Killed the Product Manager
date: 2026-02-21
tags: [management, agile]
---

In the age of AI fueled hyper productivity the product manager has died.

## What is a Product Manager

Product managers thrive in a time constrained regime. This is you have too little time to build all the features you have. There are features that deliver outsized value compared to others. The product manager therefore priorities your technical effort to deliver the most amount of value with a budgeted time. This in the short term delivers less as you have to slow down to realize what you should do. At the macro level your delivery is expectantly more valuable and your perceived to be moving faster. Insert some analogy about a tortoise and hare.

This problem existed because of specialism, your technical engineers needed to spend their entire time on execution. They couldn't make decisions effectively as were too stuck in the weeds. The commercial department were too removed from engineering to understand their issues and prioritize accordingly. Enter the product manager who translates business goals into technical execution, they bridged the gap and played with a shoe in each camp.

## What has changed

AI now writes better code than any human. The environment has warped and a great reshuffle is afoot. Some engineers are staying entrenched in their religious doctrine that humans can write better code, they will be left behind. The rest, especially those that have seen this game play out before are moving. Specialists excel for a short time but get eaten up with the advancement of technology as their brittle pillars of expertise snap with the changing seasons. [Code is cheap][1], your only job is choosing what to build, when and why. They realize the code writer job has been fully automated, they are stepping up the stack and have stomped all over product managers.

The same relationship exists, the AI replaced the engineer and then in turn they replaced the product manager. This career path was previously seen but now is now happening on mass. The problem the product manager solved is dying out. Engineers of the next generation will be raised talking in natural language and ready to understand business goals themselves. The ones that can't do that will never succeeed and so there will be no more product managers.

It does make sense for accountability. There is a funadmental problem with humans that we are completely selfish. We act cohesively not because we care about other but what is often good for others benefits us.

[1]: https://fergusfinn.com
